1.
Which of these cannot be declared static?


class


object


variable


method

Explanation: static statements are run as soon as the class containing them is loaded, prior to any object declaration.

2.
Which of these keywords is used to prevent content of a variable from being modified?


final


last


constant


static

Explanation: A variable can be declared final, doing so prevents its content from being modified. Final variables must be initialized when it is declared.

3.
 Which of the following statements are incorrect?


static methods can call other static methods only


static methods must only access static data


static methods can not refer to this or super in any way


when object of class is declared, each object contains its own copy of static variables

Explanation: All objects of class share the same static variable, when objects of a class are declared, all the objects share the same copy of static members, no copy of static variables are made.

4.
Which of these methods must be made static?


main()


delete()


run()


finalize()

Explanation: main() method must be declared static, main() method is called by Java runtime system before any object of any class exists.

5.
Which of these is the method which is executed first before execution of any other thing takes place in a program?


main method


finalize method


static method


private method

Explanation: If a static method is present in the program then it will be executed first, then main will be executed.

6.
Can a static block be used to initialize non-static variables in Java?


Yes


 No

7.
What happens if a static method is declared as final in Java?


It cannot be overridden by any subclass.


 It cannot be accessed by any instance of a class.


Both A and B


 None of the above

8.
 Main method is static because to execute main method without creating object By JVM


Yes


No

Explanation: In order to execute a method without creating an object we need to declare that method as static.